It's a very addictive industry. It's
always on. It's always different. Every
day is unique. You see what's happening
in the world in an insane degree. I've
been working on my own thing which
became Flexport. Our goal is to be an
asset light technology platform for
freight forwarding
>> and you're the most techforward of all
the companies.
>> Kind of we're the only one I think most
businesses like actually quality costs
less. It's very counterintuitive.
>> Go deeper on that.
>> But well in logistics like all the costs
come from you making a mistake. Like if
you file a customs entry and you get the
wrong classification code, you're gonna
spend weeks on doing that. Hey, that's
the game, you know? It's business. It's
not a It's not a socialist project. What
did you learn from that?
>> This is proprietary secret I'm going to
let you in on.
>> We're going to get into some of this.
>> These tariffs have had the opposite
impact that Trump would like. I think
there's intention. And there's some
validity to it all like some of the
things I said from national security and
employment other things but the result
has been
[Music]
welcome to the knowledge project
podcast. I'm your host Shane Parish. In
a world where knowledge is power, this
podcast is your toolkit for mastering
the best of what other people have
already figured out. US Customs called
Ryan Peterson with surprising news.
Steve Jobs was furious. Ryan had just
used public shipping records to predict
Apple's secret iPhone launch. That same
contrarian thinking would build Flexport
into a multi-billion dollar logistics
company spanning 147 countries. But Ryan
stepped down as CEO. He was certain that
somebody else would do a better job. His
successor hired 900 engineers in 12
months and burned through cash. Customer
satisfaction crashed from 70 to 17. Paul
Graham's response to Ryan's decision cut
deep. That's like saying this other guy
would be a better husband for your wife.
Ryan returned to a company hammering
cash. The turnaround forced him to
embrace micromanagement. But he
discovered it was just attention to
detail with bad PR. In logistics, one
customs error destroys a month of
efficiency gains. Most critically, he
learned that every operation has a
bottleneck. You either choose it or it
chooses you. In this conversation, we
explore stories you won't hear anywhere
else, like how he flew 500 million masks
to US hospitals in empty passenger
planes and how tariffs accidentally push
American factories overseas. We also
explore the counterintuitive lessons
he's learned from Charlie Mer and Peter
Kaufman. Whether you're scaling a
startup or managing any complex system,
Ryan's journey will reshape how you
think about growth, confidence, and
micromanagement.
It's time to listen and learn.
I love the idea of life's work and it
seems like your interest in logistics
started really young. Can you tell me
the story about your mom getting you to
get soda?
>> Oh, wow. Uh, yeah. Well, my mom's a
great entrepreneur. sold two started and
sold two companies uh in the biotech
biochemistry space in in Washington DC.
And so I um both my brother and I had
this job. It was like our first job was
delivering soda to off like stacking the
snacks cabinet and the sodas and stuff.
So she we basically just buy the stuff
at a giant like Safeway and then mark it
up 2x and
>> your little like cart.
>> Yeah.
>> And my dad's minivan. We'd stack up the
back of the, you know, the trunk full of
uh cases of Coke and Diet Coke. And
then, um, my dad taught us to write
software. He's a programmer. So, we
wrote software to generate the invoices
so we could she could submit the
expenses to the IRS or whatever and make
sure she got the tax deduction on our
allowance.
>> You were motivated to do it because you
could just get paid for it. What were
>> kind of easy money? I mean, you buy the
soda case for four and sell it for nine,
make five bucks on every case that I
deliver.
>> What were the dinner table conversations
like? Do you remember growing up?
>> Well, two entrepreneurial parents.
>> Yeah. Super boring because they were
talking about biochemistry and food
safety and regulations. I couldn't
understand any of it. I think I'm still
like a very fast eater. As a result, I
was trying to get out of there as
quickly as I could.
>> Did you always know you wanted to do
your own thing or
>> No, my brother was much more the
entrepreneur than me. Maybe still is.
And when I graduated, I went to UC
Berkeley. When I graduated from college,
I could it was 2002. I didn't I was
thinking I'd go into like international
development or something cool. I like to
travel internationally and I traveled a
lot in the third world cuz I had no
money. So I was like traveling places I
could afford and I was always very
intrigued by like why some countries
were poor and some were rich. So I
wanted to work in some aspect. I was
trying to get job in micro finance or
government or something. No one no one
was hiring. I I I wasn't really I didn't
have a lot of skills when I graduated
college, but my brother was hiring and
he was running a startup and so I
started working for him and that's how I
got into entrepreneurship. Which startup
was that?
>> Well, we didn't really call ourselves a
startup to be honest. We were like
buying motorcycles in China and selling
them on the internet in the US and sort
of uh this would have been I graduated
in 2002. He started it before that and
we were um tech company but we didn't
call ourselves that. We wrote all of our
own software to do kind of like it was
pre-Shify, right? So, ecom checkout,
inventory management, billing, all this
stuff. Like, if we'd have been smart
like Toby was, we' have sold
subscriptions through our little
platform and maybe could have been
Shopify, but instead we just like bought
motorcycles and sold them on eBay Motors
and actually uh through live car
auctions, our own website, etc.
>> So, you were arbiting sort of buying in
China and then selling everywhere else.
>> Yeah. Buying in China, selling in the
US.
>> And you went to live in China. What was
that like? Well, I was very curious
about the world and like I had lived in
South America. I speak Spanish and
Portuguese. I was like, you know, we
were making money, not a lot of money,
but we were making money in China.
Didn't have anyone. We had one employee
actually in China, but we weren't like
really deep in China. And I it was very
clear in 2002 that China was like just
on a tear and that it would be maybe the
future. It was like really obvious to
me. So, I moved there thinking, okay, if
anyone could learn Chinese, I already
learn Spanish and Portuguese. I can
probably learn Chinese. Let's go for it.
Uh so I moved there, kept my work
basically of like doing supply chain
logistics, ecom
development, web development, uh
customer service, just attack of all
trades for the startup that we had. And
and then also just like study Chinese
for three hours every day for a few
years while I lived in China.
>> That's intense.
>> Yeah, it's fun.
>> Mandarin is supposed to be one of the
hardest languages to learn as an adult.
>> It isn't. It isn't. Um, it's very hard.
But the Chinese people, if you give any
effort at all, are like, "Wow, they love
it. They compliment you. They reinforce
you. They make you want to do more of
it." So, it actually that part makes it
kind of rewarding and easy. Whereas, I
feel like I've I've tried to learn
French and I get I'm like way better at
French than at Chinese, but nobody
everyone in France like, "Ah, you're
you're terrible. You shouldn't even
try." I'm like, "All right, I won't."
>> Yeah. They talk to me. I I try to speak
in French and they talk back in English.
if you get like one word wrong or like
>> so Chinese is the opposite of that. You
know, you say hello and they're like,
"Wow, your Chinese is amazing."
>> So, if we think of the beats between
being in China and ending up in Silicon
Valley, what are they? What are the
major sort of like how did that happen?
>> We had this business um which we were a
startup but yeah like that's like we
call it that now. At the time we were
just trying to make money honestly and
it was we were building tech in the
cloud. We were cutting edge in a lot of
ways like in the early 2000s there
weren't cloud you know I think
Salesforce and Netswuite but Netswuite I
don't even know if it was cloud probably
was yeah we realized and it was while I
was living in China we discovered that
shipping manifest for ocean freight or
public record and it has a lot of really
interesting data on it the public record
in the US we've since learned in like
over almost 20 countries that you can
get the shipping manifest data so it
tells you it's kind of like your plane
ticket your boat ticket for your cargo
so it tells you which factory who made
the products, where's it from, who
bought it, who sold it, the dates, the
ports, a lot of interesting data. And so
we realized this data was incredibly
useful for us in sourcing products for
that company. We were always adding new
products to the line like
>> cuz you could find out who's
manufacturing the products.
>> Yeah. You could look up any product type
and see who the factories are, look up
any importer, see who their factories
are, etc. So we built um a search engine
for that data called importgenius.com.
Still a great business, still own it. So
we started that business sell
subscriptions and that that was like
again bootstrap not Silicon Valley we
started it in Arizona uh where the
motorcycle business was but we very much
like got into tech like it was a SAS
business I was started following like
trying to learn about SAS I wish we knew
more the blogging and podcast world you
can learn so much more about uh AI
whatever you can learn so much more now
than you could back 15 years ago how to
run a SAS business um Uh that got that
that's what really got us into the tech
scene. We were still outsiders for sure.
Uh and then both my brother and I both
started new companies some point that
that business great business but it's
kind of like hit its keeps growing
actually but it was it it was stopped
being a rocket We had like a few
years of like runaway growth and then it
kind of reached its place in the
ecosystem and it's been like a steady
compounder for the last decade but not
wasn't enough for me to like stay
engaged as as I should have been. And I
came back to this idea of like should be
an online platform to help you with
liquid logistics with especially your
customs clearances. Coming back to our
motorcycle days of like man this uh it's
way too important to be this hard and
this lack of tech. My brother had gone
this different direction which was his
like what other public data sets are out
there that we could build valuable data
sets and sell subscriptions or provide
access to. And so he started a company
called build zoom in construct taking
construction data. So your building
permits are public record in most places
and building like prof rich profiles of
contractors or you can look up any
building and see who remodeled it etc.
So it's kind of like both similar origin
starting points but very different
businesses obviously. Um and so he he
did Y combinator for that
>> and that was 2012.
>> He would have been 2013.
>> We were and then I saw that I got
jealous. I mean I'm like you're we're
moving from Arizon I moved to Arizona.
I'm not from there. I moved there for
KPX after uh before China actually. No,
after China, excuse me, both um before
he had after. So I had moved there for
this business for these businesses and
then I saw him leave to go to the Bay
Area where I went to college at Berkeley
to work to do Y Cominator. I was like
jealous. So I followed him
>> like sleeping on the couch
>> literally. Yeah. Sleeping in the air
mattress in the in our little apartment.
And and I would just go Y cominator at
that time did not have great security.
So I would just go with him to all the Y
Combinator uh sessions and just set out
like acted like I was part of his
company even though I kind of was and
then that inspired me to go I've been
working on my own thing which became
flex inspired me to apply to Y cominator
and go through it as well.
>> Kayla let's pause here for a beat. I
want to go back because there's a Steve
Jobs moment that we we need to capture
here with the import genius. You want to
tell us the story?
>> Oh so back in one of the early we had
built import genius. It's a great data
set. Um, it's really powerful and you
can look up companies and see what
they're shipping, who they're buying it
from and stuff. And at that time, I
guess still the big thing was when's the
new iPhone going to come out? I think we
were just on the it was the 3G iPhone.
Forget I think that's just like the
second iPhone ever. It kind of crazy.
Where are we on 5G now? But it was the
3G iPhone. We had built this product and
we had like no users for it. It was a
great example of like if you build it,
they will not come. like you have to go
get customer. We had a couple customers
but not really any. Um so I knew we
needed to get some attention. People
needed to know that this data is out
here and I we had such interesting data
about companies. And so I was searching
in the data set for Apple shipments and
saw it's public record. You can look it
up. Um saw that they were importing a
new product they had never imported
before called an electric computer which
is very interesting. All computers are
electric. It was like a silly name. Um,
and it was a perfect storm, perfect
moment. Everybody knew, it was already
being rumored that the 3G iPhone was
arriving. I didn't even know if it was
right. I just put out this blog post
being like, "Apple has this new thing.
Maybe it's the 3G iPhone." Um, and it
went very viral. We got within a week,
we were doing like $50,000 in monthly
revenue,
like all the you know, from zero to
50,000 in a in a couple of weeks. And um
and I got a call from US customs
at saying, "Hey, we just talked to Steve
Jobs and he's really pissed about this.
You need to explain where you got this
data." Sort of like threatening to shut
us out. I'm like, so I showed him the
letter. We showed him the letter of the
law explaining why this is public record
and it's public record. And then he sent
us a letter an email later saying, "Hey,
thank you so much. I had to explain I
shared that with Apple's team. Thank you
for taking the pressure off of us. Uh,
but it was a bit of the early days of
like, you know, how do you get attention
and traffic for a new product? That's
pretty cool. It was kind of like a
really viral marketing type thing, even
though it was in hindsight kind of.
>> Couple questions here. One, did Apple
change the name going forward to make it
more sort of like
>> I don't think Electric Computer's there
anymore.
>> What are some of the lessons you take
away from import Genius before we sort
of move on to Flexport? most important
one is the user retention. The company's
great and the data set's extremely
valuable, but for a lot of users, you
don't need to keep paying for it on an
ongoing basis. You can get the data, run
your search, find the factory that
you're looking for or the data, uh, and
you don't need to keep subscribing. So,
we had a relatively high churn rate.
Certain types of we eventually figured
out which types of customers like would
pay every single month tended to be
actually a freight a lot of freight
forwarding companies.
>> Oh, interesting. cuz you you we use it
at Flexport is for list lead list
construction lead genen like finding
who's importing they have my sales team
call them and talk to them about their
their freight. Um
and hedge funds and analysts like Wall
Street types that want to see what's
going on. They'll they'll pay and
they'll pay they're not they're not that
price sensitive and they'll keep paying
every month. So, but we weren't that
sophisticated
and our re our signups were always
pretty good, relatively consistent.
Forgot the numbers, but we would sign up
a few hundred customers every month. And
then, but eventually, you know, your the
size of your business is just simply the
number of new signups that you get
divided by your churn rate, annual turn
rate, and that tells you how many
customers you're going to get at at
equilibrium when those because those two
lines will cross. Uh, and we got to that
point and then from there I tried
everything I could to like we tried
everything we could. It wasn't just me.
Um, to bend that arc either make the
signups go up or the retention change
and like we ended up just adding a lot
of cost to the business without Yeah, we
we did some stuff that works but it
really your your scale of your business
is very much limited by your turn rate.
If you have any turn at all, you have
like a cap on how big you can be unless
you're increasing the number of
customers you're getting or the size of
those customers. Like it's very it's
pretty simple map. I I teach it a lot at
flexboard. It's like how important it is
to retain customers.
>> Are there any other niche data sets that
you came across while you were doing
that that are super tiny but would be
highly valuable in the same way?
>> Yeah, I think so. My well my that's what
my brother largely does is take data
sets and build businesses around them.
>> Oh construction too.
>> Yeah. So he's now he's got that company
built in but he has a few other he
partners with uh great entrepreneurs.
And
>> so like for import genius are these
records like paper and you go and like
you take a picture of them like how does
that work?
>> You have to at least freedom of
information act to access them from all
the from from customs and border
protection. You get access to the to the
data they they make no effort whatsoever
to make it useful. You don't have to do
paper digitization but they just give
like data dumps and they won't give you
past data.
>> Oh interesting.
>> And that's just custom. That's just us.
Yes, we have data sets for lat Latin
America,
uh mostly Latin America, a couple other
countries, India.
>> Okay, so let's go back to Y Cominator.
2013, you're there with your brother.
2014, you apply, you get in. Uh at that
point, you have the idea for flexport.
>> No, we'd already gotten licensed. Um and
that was the thing like we had the idea.
There's a lot of debate between me and
my brother and our other partner who had
the idea for Flexport. We all claim it.
Uh, but first email that I can find like
discussing this was like in 2008 or
nine, but it took a long time to get
licensed by Customs and Border
Protection. Had to go through an FBI
background check. Had to do a whole
bunch of Yeah, it just takes took years.
Um, so it was when we got the license
from CBP that I left, stepped down and
started Flexport. And that was about 6
months before YC started. I forget the
timeline of the application, but about
six months before. So we had but we
didn't like we had maybe a one customer.
We really didn't have any customers but
we had a v1 of the software app had the
license like had a bit of a strategy for
what we're going to go do.
>> Take me through the the Y combinator
experience.
>> It may have changed. This was already 10
years ago. Um
they do a Tuesday dinner.
PG used to cook it. I think it was
really bad food.
>> You were the last batch where he was the
>> Yeah. really lucky that I not only was
the last batch but he announced it mid
batch so you didn't take it for granted
that you're getting this time with Paul.
>> You know people talk a lot about product
market fit sales tactics or pricing
strategy but the truth is success in
selling often comes down to something
much simpler the system behind the sale.
That's why I use and love Shopay because
nobody does selling better than Shopify.
They've built the number one checkout on
the planet. And with Shop Pay,
businesses see up to 50% higher
conversions. That's not a rounding
error, that's a gamecher. Attention is
scarce. Shopify helps you capture it and
convert it. If you're building a serious
business, your commerce platform needs
to meet your customers wherever they
are, on your site, in store, in their
feed, or right inside their inbox. The
less they think, the more they buy.
Businesses that sell more sell on
Shopify. If you're serious about
selling, the tech behind the scenes
matters as much as the product. Upgrade
your business and get the same checkout
that I use. Sign up for your $1 per
month trial period at
shopify.com/nowledge
project. All lowercase. Go to
project to upgrade your selling today.
Shopify.com/nowledge
project.
Are you struggling to manage your
projects at work using lots of different
tools for communication, task
management, and scheduling? Doesn't have
to be this hard. Base Camp is the
refreshingly straightforward, reliable
project management platform. It's
designed for small and growing
businesses. So, there's none of the
complexity you get with software
designed for enterprises. Complexity
kills momentum. Base Camps the path so
your team can actually move. do away
with scattered emails, endless meetings,
and missed deadlines. With Base Camp,
everything lives in one place. To-do
lists, message boards, chat
conversations, scheduling, and
documents. When information is
scattered, attention is too. Base Camp
brings both back together. Base Camp's
intuitive design ensures that everyone
knows what's happening, who's
responsible, and what's coming next. My
head of operations swears by this
platform and is the first person to
suggest it to anyone. If you need
another decorated referral, you should
call her. Whether you're a small team or
a growing business, Base Camp scales
with you. Stop struggling. Start making
progress. Get somewhere with Base Camp.
Sign up for free at basecamp.com.
>> But for me, it was amazing cuz I'm not
from I hadn't been living in the S
Silicon Valley ecosystem. I didn't have
connections. And the Evernote CEO, Phil
Libon, he was hilarious. Ches Brian
Chesy. um yeah kind of like somewhat
eminent founders and investors and stuff
but they just come and give a talk for a
couple hours do Q&A so nothing amazing
but um the real benefit of YC I think is
the friends that that I made like as an
outsider fair to call myself that back
then like I didn't have a lot of
entrepreneur friends they were trying to
find them online and stuff so this like
all of a sudden I had all these peers
who were also building businesses and
like that's I don't know that's just
super valuable from a life experience
standpoint. I don't know how much it
helped the business, but just like made
my life better. And then it also I guess
that kind of understates like YC if
you're one of the top companies. I think
it's very important to be a top company
if you're going to do Y Combinator.
There's a bit of a competition. A lot of
people don't realize that. It's like at
the end of the day there's only so many
hot companies that can come out each
year and you want to be if you're one of
those then it's tremendously valuable
for you because fundraising I could have
raised money. I had built a successful
profitable SAS business. I'm sure I
could have raised money, but I literally
like tried at one point to raise money
and I showed up in Silicon Valley on San
Hill Road wearing a suit and tie. I just
didn't know. I think people like just
were like, "Who's this guy?" You know,
uh, and tried to raise money for it.
Now, I didn't try that hard. I did a
couple pitches and they went nowhere.
Uh, and then with YC, it was a feeding
frenzy. Was it turned from an outbound
sale, which is hard doing outbound kind
of cold calling to an inbound sale where
everybody was like eager to invest. They
heard about Flexport. PG himself really
like liked and likes Flexport and was
telling investors, you should invest in
this company, which kind of
controversial YC partners. I think
they're a little better about it now
than they used to be, but they would
kind of p choose favorites. And hey,
that's the game, you know? It's
business. It's not a it's not a
socialist project. We're here to like
find the best businesses and back them.
Um, but it is I I I'm try to tell every
founder like you're going to go into YC,
it's not you're not there to have fun.
You're trying to be the best. And it is
a competition. You versus you sure make
friends with them. I'm sure Michael
Phelps is friends with the other
swimmers too, but like you're trying to
beat them on some level.
>> What are some of the lessons that you
learned from Paul Graham that still
resonate with you today? I know you
still talk to him a lot.
>> His main thing is not he doesn't look at
the downside and what could go wrong. He
only looks at what could go right and
like how big and awesome could this be
in the best case scenario and what
should you do to make that happen. It's
not you're not lo and and that's like
for a seed investor the obviously
correct way because the losers don't
matter. All that matters is you get the
power law winners that do 100,000x or
whatever their best deals have done for
them. Again, I was really lucky cuz we
were in his last batch and he announced
like halfway through the batch that he
was stepping down and Sam was taking
over, but he kept running the batch the
whole way. So then when it came to demo
day, the preparation for demo day for
when you go pitch the investors, um I
barely worked on my pitch. In fact, my
pitch was pretty bad. I think I'm like
not very good at reading a script and
they only give you two minutes. So you
kind of have to have a script if you're
going to do a two-minute pitch. But
also, I was kind of back cuz I didn't
practice very much. I had the
opportunity to sit there. I'm in
Picasso's studio. You're gonna watch
Picasso paint. You know, he's about to
retire. So, I got to sit there and watch
PG critique other people's pitches
instead of go, I don't want to sit there
and paint. Like, let me just watch
Picasso paint, you know? Um, so I sat
next to him for 12 hours a day for like
three days in a row watching him
critique everyone else's pitch. What did
you learn from that?
>> This is proprietary secret I'm going to
let you in on. You should tighten the
aspect ratio on your graph and it'll
make it the curve looks steeper. I feel
like he told everybody that. like just
scrunch your grasp and watch how your
startup looks hotter. Uh there's
something to that. You got to appeal to
investors greed. I don't know if he
taught me that or someone else, but it's
kind of the same thing. You want to
There's there's a feeling that goes to
it. Really simplifying things. I mean,
one of the things that PG is really good
at if you read his writing and stuff is
just like very simple language. You
won't read like a PG sentence when
you're like, "What is that word? I don't
understand." He's like very simple. It's
easy to understand. My favorite PG
moment from that period was one of my
friends had us in the batch did a
presentation and PG was like, "This is
terrible. This is not good." And he
rewrote the whole thing for me. He's
like, "You should say this, this, and
this." And like he just said all the
things and my friend just took down
perfect notes. Probably does like you
pitch for two minutes, then he gives you
like 10 minutes of feedback and then the
next group comes and he just does that
over and over again all day. So there's
a queue. So if you pitch and you want to
do it again and come back and try again,
you got to wait like three hours for
your turn. So like three or four hours
go by. My friend goes back up and
presents the the the pitch and he says
exactly word for word everything that PG
told him to say. And then PG was like,
"That's perfect. That's the best pitch
I've ever heard. He totally forgot cuz
he's doing too many pitches in a row. He
totally forgot that." That was like,
"Dude, you wrote that pitch." That was
amazing. I learned a lot from all his
essays and stuff, too. It's hard to
remember what I learned from him
personally versus reading all of his
stuff.
>> You get out of YC uh 2014. Walk me
through the major beats uh and
milestones up until the Soft Bank
investment which was 2019.
>> There's a lot um actually one of the
funniest things one of our other
investors is Ron Conway and he was he
saved Flexport at one I don't know if
I've ever told this story, but um we had
a license from Customs and Border
Protection, but it was issued, oddly
enough, in the port of Houston, which is
like the whole story, but it was like
that's where we got our license for. And
it's fine. You have a national license.
One one of the things that made Flexport
possible was that in 2007,
I think it was, the customs changed the
rules to allow for electronic filing of
customs entries. And it used to be that
you had to have a license at each port
where you wanted to clear goods. So a
startup could not possibly enter unless
you were just like a little mom and pop
help the local companies, but like
there's no point in doing an internet
company to serve one port. Um, and so
that changed in 2007. We started
applying for licenses in like09 or
something. Markets aren't totally
efficient, but kind of. Um, and okay, so
we had this license, but it was in
Houston and we wanted to be in San
Francisco after YC and in order to
transfer it, it's just a administrative
process, but you have to have a business
license from the city of San Francisco.
Simple, right? It's just a business
license.
Well, the city of San Francisco had an
IT problem and was unable to issue
business licenses. And this was in 2014.
They were they had not been issuing
business licenses for several years.
They could issue a letter that says you
have a business license,
but customs wouldn't accept that. They
wanted the license and they printer
problem. I don't know what the IT
problem was. They wouldn't accept a
letter on city letterhead saying yes,
this company has a license on file with
us. They wanted to see the actual
license. It was a kind of like Kafka-es.
At some point we just weren't going to
be able to operate in San we were like
operating remotely in Houston and and it
just wasn't going to work and customs
was kind of clear like you need to you
can you can only transmit entries
physically sitting in Houston. So, I
told Ron Conway about this situation and
he emailed the late Ed Lee who was our
mayor and I Ron was like one of his big
uh donors and friends and we got the
license within six hours. They like went
down. I don't know what happened at city
hall. They got the license printed and
we you know sent it to customs and all
got moved. But like there was a moment
there where like Flexport was not going
to be able to operate in San Francisco
uh if it was and it was just crazy.
Can't can't issue a license.
>> That's insane. So anyways, that was very
early days. Um, many things happen. I
would say like the summary of it all is
we had product market fit just like
insane from the get- go to the point of
it being a problem like more demand than
we could keep up with asking us to do
more things than we were capable of
doing. Just sort of run away. It was not
all success. Lots of mistakes and bumps
in the road. But um I guess the big a
couple of big milestones on there. One
is we started out when we went through
my cominator flexport was just a customs
brokerage. We didn't do freight
forwarding and we said hey we're gonna
do freight forwarding someday but we
wanted to just focus the kind of dogma
in startups is like be really good at
one thing really focus you written about
this like need to focus we also the
other dogma is talk you know why
cominator talk to users and make
something people want and when we were
just doing customs we get customers but
like we get the worst kind we get a lot
of rough types of customers one of the
first things we ever imported was a a
tuk tuk which is like a from Cambodia
Some guy went to Cambodia and bought
like one of those little uh jeep knee uh
kind of scooters with the cool seats in
the back. Like Berkeley professor wanted
it for the nudest parade in Berkeley. Uh
not he was only going to do one of those
in his life. Not a great customer. So we
had like a lot a lot of customers for
customs brokerage but like rough
customers doing things that they were
amateurs. They didn't know what they
were doing. They weren't probably going
to recur. Some guy bought like a bouncy
house for his kids' birthday party in
China because he was too cheap to buy
one locally. Like stuff like that.
>> Is that because people want to deal with
one one interaction from a freight
forwarding and customs brokerage point
of view?
>> Exactly. And so like when whenever we
talked to real companies that were doing
repeat transactions, they're like, "We
didn't want to separate customs from the
freight." And if they did, they were
going to give the customs to like the
best customs brokerage in the world with
the best reputation for compliance. And
like we were not to the startup. Uh now
we actually have a lot of big companies
that use Flexport for customs only. Uh
because we've built our brand and our
reputation and our technology systems to
actually we can say hey we're the best
if you want to separate your customs
from freight. And there are good reasons
to do so. Like it's a hub for your
compliance data. You don't want to shop
it out, you know, and have all these
compliance records living in 10
different freight forwarder systems,
>> right?
>> People are much more likely to have a
single customs broker and many
forwarders that move the freight. But
when we were starting out, like that
wasn't us. So we and when we only did
customs, we were not getting like the
legitimate companies that we wanted to
build a business around. So that was the
first um kind of it's not really a
pivot. We always knew we'd go into
freight, but we went there much faster
than we wanted to. And the moment we did
that, it was again like back to couldn't
keep up with the demand. And it became a
much harder problem like customs like,
"Okay, cool. I self-contain. This is a
contained environment here. I got to
collect the data, got to transmit it to
US customs. Freight forwarding. All of a
sudden, I'm like unconstrained. I'm out
here in the freaking wild giant round
world. You're dealing with multiple
parties,
different interfaces to each party cuz
you're trying to computerize things at
this point. And there I don't imagine
there's API like how does that even
work,
>> right? There's there were no APIs, still
very few APIs. um a lot of manual work,
a lot of like we've built like
automation and software interfaces and
wherever there are systems like a lot of
integration layers into different IT
systems of all the vendors. Um but yeah,
we open up a can of worms like we got
unlimited demand but like problems much
harder and hard to keep up. That's why I
say it's been like this race to like
build the capabilities, tech, people,
geographic footprint, infrastructure
around the world to match the demand.
Um, but we went from I I forget the
metrics at the moment of the first soft
bank investment, but um
one point in magazine rated Flexport the
second fastest growing company in the
world. They did in the Inc. 5000. We
were we were second place, but the first
place company was started before us and
was smaller than us.
>> Okay.
>> So, like the math says we grew faster
than they did. I don't know how they did
their math, but they were wrong. We
should have been number one that year.
>> It wasn't weighted.
>> I don't remember who it was, but um but
we should. Anyways, we were very fast
growing company and a lot of times,
yeah, that that can kind of like cover
up a lot of problems that we had. Were
you doing things manually and trying to
computerize it as you go or trying to do
it computerized from the get-go?
>> We were do a lot of stuff manually.
We're still open to we do a lot with
people. Um
but with this we're not satisfied with
that. We're like constantly
figuring okay we'll just do it make the
that's that's the secret to our success.
We're willing to do what the customer
needs with humans as needed. Um but
constantly say this is not good. What
are we going to do software wise to take
this and structure the workflow and put
it into a automation? So we're now on
like a freight just a standard plain
vanilla ocean container from any port in
Asia to anywhere in the US inland all
the way to destination.
We break it down to about 108 steps that
have to be completed and 92% of those
are done either by software automation
or sent out to like a third party BO
processing entity. Um so that gets our
cost down and the quality is really good
because everything's measurable and
precise. So we've got that piece is like
really um took us a long time to build.
It wasn't like that in the beginning. in
the beginning of people uh people
picking up the phone and sending a
freight email forwarding I call it but
that's the way every other freight
forwarder in the world does it too so
we're like okay build a better interface
for the customer drive demand
and then have this we are not satisfied
with the way the industry works what are
we going to do to you know structure all
in fact in many cases the our cost be
higher because if you don't structure
the data you you just forward the email
the PDF like that could be cheaper than
like being like oh I got to structure
that put it into our database. Um, and
so your costs can be higher, especially
if you're just doing one shipment one
time. Like why bother structuring the
data? The whole point is that the second
time you ship the same thing, your costs
are really low because you just go,
"Yeah, do that again."
>> Yeah. So that leads to the Soft Bank
investment which was I think they gave
you a billion in cash.
>> Yeah.
>> 2019.
>> They and other investors in the round
did. Yeah.
>> So what happened with that? Like you get
this money and are you like we can put
the pedal to the metal here? Cuz didn't
something happen right after that?
Somebody went bankrupt or something.
>> Oh, that was even before Hanene was the
big ocean carrier. They went bankrupt in
2016.
>> Oh, it was 2016. Uh 2016 was a very
interesting year for for freight
forwarding that everyone's forgotten
about because we all keep talking about
expensive freight and all the chaos and
problems in supply chain now tariffs but
COVID a whole bunch of other things the
Red Sea crisis like wars but
>> well we're going to get into some of
that stuff.
>> Yeah, I'm sure we will. But in 2016 it's
kind of the opposite. There was so much
capacity. It was so cheap you could ship
a container from China to the US for our
cost were like $600. Uh normal long run
average about 2,000 today. Hey, I didn't
check the price this morning. It was
probably four or 5,000 right now. Um,
and the peak co was, you know, famously
got to like 20,000. So, but it was 600
bucks that year and that was an early
year. We did YC in 2014 and in 2016 we
took that as cheap prices and just pass
them through to customers and it led to
crazy growth for us. Um, a good lesson
actually that we want to be able to play
that strategy. Pass through low costs
and you'll grow really fast. So was 2019
when you started to look for a COO?
>> 2019 we got the funding from Soft Bank
and then we did I hired a CTO that year.
>> Okay. Really upgraded coin invest in our
tech. We hired a CTO from Amazon
Logistics and he was he helped us build
like some of that workflow software that
I described was like kind of architect
for that. And then co hit and that's
where I say Flight Sport looked really
great like we were we turned profitable
in 2022. Our revenue peaked at 3.8
billion because the price of freight was
so high.
>> But pause like you knew CO was going to
hit in February before it actually hit
>> January even. Yeah. I mean well it was
it was in the newspaper but we have a
group called flexport.org. We do
shipping for humanitarian causes like
refugee camps and hospitals, nonprofits
at cost uh sometimes below cost. We had
been part we're partnered with a lot of
groups like international aid groups and
things like this and um co it was in the
newspaper it would hit in Wuhan and we
actually got a ton of demand to ship
masks to China for the doctors in China
and so in January of that year we
shipped about 300,000 N95s from the US
to China which then like two months
later when there were no N95s mass in
the US we're like whoops like um so yeah
we saw that pretty early
and then the other thing that came out
in that period was people about 50% of
the world's air freight travel we do air
freight too ocean freight um and about
50% of the world's air freight flies in
the belly of passenger planes and those
all got grounded because of co there was
no reason to you know I think they're
actually grounded legally um and so we
saw we were at the heart of kind of
bringing masks bringing PPE generally in
for US hospital networks from mostly
produced in China. And so we saw this
insane demand for air freight and there
were no ships and no planes to move it
and the ships are too slow like
hospitals are running out of masks. So
we saw that and got pretty active like
well you can kind of see the solution to
that problem is in the problem itself
was like well all of the passenger
planes are grounded so we can't ship any
mass. you're like, "Wait, the passenger
planes are all grounded." Uh, and so
with some of our connections, we got in
touch with all the major passenger
airlines and we got 80 plane 80
passenger aircraft and flew them to
China
>> because cargo planes are allowed to
travel internet.
>> Well, passenger planes could travel too,
just not with passengers, right? So, we
got the airplane uh the airlines to give
us great deals
>> cuz otherwise the planes are just idle
>> just sitting there in the desert and
stuff and just sitting at the airport.
So we got all this. We got 80 we did 88
I think it was 87 88 um passenger planes
full of masks in the overhead
compartments in every seat obviously the
belly and we just we flew 500 million
masks and other object other PPE items
in for US hospital network in March and
April of 2020.
Do you ever struggle to stay focused?
There's a reason I reach for my
remarkable paper pro when I need to
think clearly. If you're looking for
something that can help you really hone
in on your work without all the
distractions, Remarkable, the paper
tablet, might just be what you're
looking for. Remarkable just released
their third generation paper tablet,
Remarkable Paper Pro. It's thin,
minimalist, and feels just like writing
on paper, but comes with powerful
digital features such as handwriting
conversion, built-in reading light,
productivity templates, and more. It's
not just another device. It's a
subtractive tool. No notifications, no
inbox, no apps. Just you, your ideas,
and a blank page that feels like paper
but smarter. Whether you're in a meeting
or deep in a creative session, this
device is built to keep you in the zone.
In a world built to steal your focus,
this tablet gives it back. It's become
the place I do my deepest work. And it
travels light, slim enough for any bag,
powerful enough for any boardroom. Not
sure if it's for you? No worries. You
can try Remarkable Paper Pro for up to a
100 days with a satisfaction guarantee.
If it's not the game changer you were
hoping for, you'll get your money back.
Get your paper tablet at remarkable.com
today.
It was crazy. It was like one of the
most meaningful parts of my career and
everyone at Flexora. It was great cuz we
were like not in a none of us and the
world was in a good place, but it all of
a sudden totally distracted us from
whatever problems we trade fell off a
cliff. It was really bad for business in
the first month or two. We're like who
cares? Like we get a hospitals like the
civilization will collapse if the
hospitals don't show if the doctors
don't show up for work and became
friendly friends with um the guy who
runs UCSF Sam Hoga. He's the chancellor
of UCSF our local hospital. And um
remember years later I met his wife
dinner and she was like it was when when
I saw this Zoom call of you talking to
Sam was the first moment when I realized
everything's going to be okay cuz you it
really touched me. It was like I said
you guys are highly compensated people
are going to get mass delivered you know
the day before they run out. Uh now
another thing that came out of that was
in April of 2020
same problem statement. The passenger
planes weren't very economic. They were
giving us great deals because we were
serving hospitals and it was all like
kind of pro bono not for-p profofit
work.
>> Mhm.
>> They were giving us great deals. It was
I remember once we one of the planes the
one I remember was a Dreamliner only
charged us $200,000 to fly a Dreamliner
to China and back.
>> Oh wow.
>> Which like if you anyone's ever flown
private that would be like a Dreamliner.
I mean this is many millions of dollars
probably round trip. Couple mill like a
million probably or 500k I'm not sure.
So they gave us a great deal. We saw
lots of things like that, but it wasn't
sustainable for the business side of
things now. And we had a lot of ongoing
demand for air freight, but all the
passenger planes are grounded. So, we
signed a long-term deal for three 747s
from Atlas Airlines, the biggest cargo
airline in the world, dedicated to
Flexport. And it was in that response to
that of like hey the passenger plane we
had this vision this view this
perspective that air frees can be very
expensive because all the capacity is
grounded and stuff still needs to move.
People still need to ship stuff. So we
signed a deal with the airline uh with
that airline at a great rate and I think
they were their their stock Atlas was in
is in these airline indices. It's
actually if we were smarter we would
have just bought their stock because
they were public company and they were
in these public these indices for
airlines and those tanked.
>> Yeah.
>> But the cargo airline the price should
have gone to the roof cuz they're still
they're the price of air freight is
going to go crazy. I think I pro I
haven't really talked to them about why
they signed the deal with us but we got
a good deal as a result of that moment
where there was this dislocation. I
assume that their stock price going down
was like part of the their anxiety to
like get these things signed off with
us. So we got a good deal. it, but it
did kind of turn Flexport into a cargo
airline.
Uh, and we've had those planes ever
since. So, it's not our it was more of a
tactic than a strategy. Like our goal is
to be an asset light technology platform
for freight forwarding and work be like
more neutral and agnostic and move the
cargo on anybody's planes. But we we saw
that
>> moment. Has that helped you in other
ways? Not from a business point of view,
but like learning and being more
responsive to customers? I mean it
really helped us during those few years
of co when there's tight capacity we
could serve people and no one else
could. It really an education about
asset ownership in logistics in in that
it kind of turns you against your
customers in some ways that can be
unhealthy. You have to really overcome
that inner that because um your job when
you have a plane or a ship is to fill
the plane or the ship. It's not to serve
the customer anymore.
like if the customer's cargo needs to go
to a different airport, you'll try to
convince them to fly it where your plane
is going and then truck it a long
distance or you know it's like oh you
just wait 3 days the plane's leaving in
3 days instead of going hey let me find
you a different option. So you have to
overcome that culturally. Like if you're
an asset owner, it's pretty hard to be
customer centric because your job is
like fill the asset or you don't make
money.
>> Which is interesting because later on
you get warehouses, but we'll we'll get
to this.
>> Uh and okay, so fast forward a couple
years and you're looking for a COO.
>> Mhm.
>> What was the the thought behind that?
>> Yeah. So co it did some interesting
things for us. It made us kind of famous
and park has the hospital stuff and some
other things that we did during that
time when when supply chains got
dislocated. Um but it uh so it helped
the business and the profile of the
business. It financially was we turned
profitable
but it really exposed some flaws in our
operations and we were we were remote
for way too long. Um work from home
which just doesn't work in our industry
maybe in any industry but certainly not
in logistics. she needs to be like in
person collaborating, partnering on the
with the assets, etc. Um, really exposed
some flaws like when you we would just
prior to co just send a truck to the
port, pick up the container.
>> Yeah.
>> And you take it for granted. But during
that time, you couldn't get
appointments, you couldn't get trailers,
the chassis to go to haul the
containers, just not enough capacity. It
was like it the operation was really
failing in a lot of ways.
Um, we, by the way, same for all of our
peers and other freight forwarders.
Everyone was kind of in the same boat,
but that's not how that's not an excuse.
We want to be the best. And we didn't
feel like we were winning for a period
there operationally and like how we
serve customers. Our net promoter score
like was always in the 70s, which is a
great good metric for customer
satisfaction. And that like collapsed. I
forgot how got to like 17 at one point.
It was pretty bad. So, had a lot of
operational problems. And I'm um much
more of a creative type,
>> okay,
>> than I am an operators like do the same
thing every single day and a little bit
better and measure every detail. And
that that it's not like I've gotten good
at that, but that's not like naturally
who I am, what my background is. I'm
more just like a freewheing
entrepreneur. So was looking for a
partner to kind of take that on for me
and help Flexport mature and grow. So
yeah, that was in that would have been
in 2022 when we really like kind of
launched in earnest search for a
business partner to help me out the
operation side of things. And then you
end up meeting Dave Clark who would go
on to take over as CEO for a period of
time.
>> Uh but he was originally were you think
you were thinking COO or
>> was trying to hire COO and met Dave
Clark. He was the CEO of Amazon.com.
He'd run Amazon's logistics and supply
chain for many years. Um, so it seemed
like a great fit. Tech and logistics. It
was actually in many ways. He was
>> And you had the good Amazon hire in
2019, the CTO.
>> Yeah. Um, and a lot of people I hired
from Amazon. We hired a lot of great
people. We still have a lot of good
people who worked at Amazon. Logistics
and tech, like they're probably the best
at I think we're the best now, but I
think they uh I don't think I could
always say that. I think we keep getting
better. But um, yeah, Amazon logistics
and tech, that's what they're known for,
right? So it seemed like a perfect fit.
walk me through how we get from that
moment of hiring to you stepping down as
CEO.
>> Uh, well, it was kind of an orderly
transition when we hired him was like,
"Hey, let's have a path for you to
become the CEO." It became pretty clear
that like I don't know, it's hard for me
to picture like what am I going to be
better at today run this big company?
And was that a confidence thing for you?
>> Yeah, I mean, I feel a lot more
confident now having seen uh done a much
better job uh in the last 18 months than
we ever did before. So, yeah, Dave, he
was only the he was with us for a year.
was the CE CEO for we were co-CEOs and
then CEO by himself for 6 months while I
became chairman of the board. Didn't
work out.
I think these hires are really hard in
hindsight.
>> What was the first sort of sign or first
moment you realized
oh
>> there are a lot of things it was
building up. I mean honestly it was the
P&L at the end of the day like we just
started burning too much money. Some of
that was market forces turned against
us. like we we overhired. I I approved
all those hires like we wanted to go big
on tech and just dominate. We kind of
read the market. It was like trying to
be contrarian. So they had a really
strong balance sheet. Um had like 1.6
billion in the bank and everybody was
cutting tech hiring in 23
and we felt like let's go lean in,
>> put the pedal to the metal
>> and and go hire a bunch of engineers. I
think we added 900 software engineers in
in like 12 months.
>> Oh wow.
>> And
turned out they're all in the US or
almost all in the US, Seattle mostly. It
was like very expensive. People had a
lot of senior exeacts. So we just like
overinvested in the business and at the
same moment like the freight markets
were collapsing. Capital markets got
ugly. It like became clear like hey
you're not going to go raise we'd
already raised too much money like we
don't need to raise can't raise more
money. And so it was just like kind of a
perfect storm of bad decisions of which
I was like you know signed off on all of
them so I don't blame Dave for that but
it became clear we got to change courses
here change course here and our customer
one of the mistakes that we made during
that period was we took that that
workflow system I was describing where
you have like all these tasks that have
to get completed and we had taken this
idea of efficiency way too seriously to
where an operator here would just do
like one or two of these tasks
and do those over and over and over
again like a robot almost. What will
happen? Then you have like 50 different
people collaborating on one shipment.
That's how fulfillment works. If you go
to a fulfillment center, it's the only
way it could work. You're not you're not
going to have the same person like
>> Yeah.
>> unload the truck, put away the goods,
take the good, put it in a box. Like you
break it into stages, right? And so
that's where the Amazon
background and flexboard background
really came in conflict actually because
they break it apart into simple tasks
and have the same person do it over and
over again and like kind of robot human
robots almost like or literal robots and
and at forwarding it's much more of a
service business. There's a lot more
exceptions that can go wrong. You're out
there in a messy world. You don't know
all the assets. You don't control all
the things that are happening. You need
to like oversee these things and oh the
trucker didn't pick it up. Like better
call a different trucker. like, "Oh,
they're not responding on the API."
Okay, pick up the phone. You know, go
there. Lost the cargo. All right, drive
to the airport. Like, you know, I mean,
it's it's a service business for and
it's B2B. You spend a lot of time with
the customer. So, but especially that
that piece um the quality really started
to suffer and it's a really good lesson
in business and I think most businesses
like actually quality costs less. It's
very counterintuitive.
>> Go deeper on that. And well, in
logistics, like all the costs come from
you making a mistake. Like like if you
file a customs entry and you get the
wrong classification code,
you're going to spend weeks on doing
that with the customs agencies and like
you might have license issues or
regulatory problems. Like getting it
right the first time costs way less than
one mistake will undo all your
efficiency gains for the month, you
know, in logistics. So had to learn that
the hard way. our customer NPS really
started to suffer. So the board was
looking at it and going like, "Okay,
you're burning too much money. You're
going to have to cut costs and that
means cutting headcount." Like that's
where most of the costs at.
>> So you got to cut costs and you got to
improve your quality. That's a kind of a
hard
thing to do and our culture had been
suffering. We brought in all these new
leaders and like the core people that
built the business were like
>> we grew in insanity
>> leaving. We had grown. It's a really
hard business cuz it's so global. like
we ship to and from 147 countries. We
have we have people all over the world.
Like and so the board kind of looked at
this problem and said like this is a
problem for the founder of the business.
Like you need to come back. Nothing
against Dave per se, but it was like
very clear like, okay, you're gonna cut
people and tell them you care about the
culture and tell them I need you to work
harder to solve like customer problems
and do a giant reorg back to the way
we'd always been organized that led to
all the growth, which was operator would
take a shipment end to end and own all
the tasks, own that. And just like the
board was like, Ryan, we need, you know,
you got to come back and step in and do
this. And I had already taken a job at
Founders Fund as a partner. So it was a
little it was it's so embarrassing for
me like I'm like I just took this job
and now I got to go back like what am I
doing? I got to follow through on my
commitments. But it was obviously like
I'm honor bound to to make Flex Bar work
make it successful. So I I was very
happy and excited to come back.
>> What happened when you told PG you were
stepping down? I didn't tell him till
later.
I forget when, but like after I I was
the chairman, so I think I was already
at Founders Fun. He was pissed because
he thought I should go be a partner at Y
Combinator instead of Founders Fun first
off. But I went for a walk with him when
he came back to Palo Alto one time. And
he um he asked me why he did it, why I
stepped down. I said, "Well, I thought I
think Dave's going to be better at the
job than I am," which is genuinely true.
That's why I did it. It wasn't cuz I was
burnt out or something. I just thought
he would be better for the company.
thought we needed to mature and be
better at operations and better at
building tech than we were. And I
thought he'd be better at that. Um, and
Paul had this amazing line. He said, uh,
that's like saying this other guy would
be a better husband for your wife, might
be true, but like don't act on it. Like
this is your company. You need to stay
in there. I thought that was super
hilarious. And he then told me, "Okay,
if he's better than you at these
things," and he asked me, "Is this your
life's work?" Heard you say that
earlier. "Is this your life's work? Is
Flexport your life's work?" I was like,
"Yeah, it is." He's like, "Well, then
you need to figure out all the things
that he's better than you at and go
learn them. Go learn them from him.
Learn them from other people. Like,
figure out what are these things that
you think he's better than you so you
can be the next CEO after he steps back
like Larry Paige did uh after he came
back. He hired Eric Schmidt for a decade
and then came back." He's like, "You
need to go learn those skill sets." But
it happened much faster than
uh PG and I could have imagined on that
walk.
>> Did you go and learn those? Was there a
conscious effort on your part?
>> I don't know. They all happened so fast.
Not really. Um, but I've learned plenty
of lessons along the way. Yeah.
>> Walk me through some of those.
>> Well, the number one thing I think is um
I learned from Toby from Shopify and
Brian Chesy who've been good advisors
for me. The micromanagement is not a bad
word, it's a good word. You got to like
stay involved in all the details
and that's very hard in my company. were
like big and sprawling and do a lot of
stuff, but need to be way more hands-on.
Do lots of skip levels. Don't trust
don't like hire big executives and then
just trust them. Like treat them like a
black box. Like I had when I heard him
say this, I was like, "Oh my god, I
committed this sin at the highest
possible level, right?" But like don't
do that at any level. Like it's all my
company. Audit everything. Inspect
everything. It's you can't just like
give people too much leash to run things
their way. And if they disagree with me,
like
sure, I want to I want to debate it. I
want to hear from them, but like at the
end of the day, I know I'm going to
still work at Flexboard in 10 years. And
I don't know if that's true about anyone
else. And that that's that's something I
heard from Chesy. And I was like, you
know, it's like it's probably true. Like
I hope that my team stays and I got the
team for 10 years, but I'm positive that
I'll be here. And so if they really
don't like the way I want to do
something, like, okay, no problem. But
it's my company and like they can move
on. And like that's a level of
confidence that I didn't have prior.
>> I heard from people that we have in
common that you when you came back uh
you were a different CEO and you were
like founder mode before it became
founder mode.
>> Yeah. I mean Jes hardcore I think I try
learn but but I didn't have as many
frameworks for it. I was just like oh I
got to do what I have to do you know and
there was a lot of stuff that I really
didn't understand about the company. I
had way too much committed all these
sins of just like okay there's a problem
in some department hire a big exec let
them and then don't get in their way
like that is the kind of the corporate
way that most people teach or like most
people expect like this is how a company
should be run micromanagement is a bad
word to the first person I ever heard
that from that like it's not a bad it's
like a great thing get involved you know
why would you ever want like
micromanagement and attention to detail
the same two words for the same thing
right attention to detail is great like
your boss is involved in your stuff Like
that's only a problem if your boss is an
idiot and out of touch and making bad
decisions. But like if your boss like
genuinely cares about your work, is
involved in tune, knows what you're
doing, has good judgment, like why would
you not want them looking over your
shoulder and participating with you in
what you're doing? So but is a much I
don't know. I don't know. I've never
worked at another company really, but
it's um compared to other businesses, I
think far more complex. So, it's hard.
It's really actually quite hard for me
to live up to Chesy's ideal of like I
think he says like if the company should
only do as many things as the founder
can be personally involved in. It's a
nice ideal. It doesn't work at my
company. We're like in all these
different countries and all these
different modes of transport that like
one person can't actually keep it all in
their head, but I try my hardest. How do
you hire differently? What do you look
for differently? And then how do you
integrate people differently now as a
result of these experiences?
>> I just like only promote from within
except for very rare cases where just
like really can't find the person. Uh
and then I spend a lot more time with
new hire. I've only hired one person
actually from external in the last
couple years and I spent just like loads
of time with him and I told him he's not
allowed to make any decisions for 90
days.
>> How did that play out? It was perfect
honestly. And he even told me like maybe
I should have done more time because I
remember he told me at like day 88
but no he told me day 91 that if I had
let him if I had told him 80 days he
would have made different decisions than
he made and like even those last 10 days
there was still like learning and taking
things in. You have to approach startups
if you're an executive and you're
joining a company you have to approach
it with extreme humility.
Like these are smart, really smart
people. Like some of the smartest people
I've ever met have worked come through
the doors of Flexport or still work at
Flexport. And we've been obsessed with
the problems that we're working on for a
decade. And like the idea that some big
shots could come in here, this is no
knock on any particular person. It's
just like a classic like what are the
odds that anyone could come in and know,
you know, on day one do figure out
problems that we couldn't think of or
solutions that we couldn't think of.
It's why like no investor ever gives me
useful advice really because like I not
sure they can't about people and some
high level stuff for sure or capital
markets but like business like strategy
like how could they ever know my
business better than me? I obsess about
it like every waking hour.
>> I'm always skeptical of people who run
businesses or even government and they
contract things out to consultants and
it's like well how is that consultant
know your business better than that
scares me.
>> Excitement. Yeah. uh PJ wrote about that
in his founder mode. He's like, well, if
you're a professional manager,
your mindset is like you can run any
company. So, you go in and and in that
world, you shouldn't be too involved in
all the things cuz like, hey, you know,
you don't you don't know about that
particular domain, that industry. So,
just trust the people that are already
there.
Your job is kind of
babysitting it all. But that's sort of
like founder founder mode as they come
to be called is like you should know all
the stuff like more or less.
>> You were at that talk. What did you Were
you inspired by that? What did you take
away from it? What was the moment that
really like solidified things for you?
>> My god, I wish I could I wish it was
recorded. He went on a rant like four
three hours just like he's a very
intense guy. I took like four or five
pages of notes. So, I was definitely
like enthralled in the back and like a
lot of stuff deeply resonated, but I'm
already um yeah, I've shared already
some of the specific things. A lot of it
is like yeah, just be way more involved
in the day-to-day and if the people
don't and do a lot more skip levels like
meet the people who report. Don't trust
the managers. Not in a bad way. Like,
you know, I'm here to help. Like,
actually, I'll when I go skip level
meaning like go talk to the people who
work for I talk to anyone. I've I've
talked to 40 or 50 people every day on
Slack or text or phone um at Flexport.
And if I talk to somebody who works for
you, I'm not like trying to undermine
you. I'm going to come back to you and
be like, "Here's what they said. Like,
here's what I think we need to do." And
if the person asked me to keep it
confidential, I'll do my best. But, um
ultimately, I'm trying to solve problems
together with my exact. So, you know, if
people have a problem, thus far, they
haven't. But if someone had a problem
with that, I'll be like, "Well, it's
probably not a fix. This is my company.
I'm going to talk to anyone I want in
this company." I find it interesting cuz
you remember that telephone game in like
preschool where you sit in a circle and
there's like 10 of you and the teacher
like passes a message to some kid on the
right and then it goes through 10 kids
and by the time it gets back to the
teacher it's like this completely
different
>> sentence in meeting and organizations
sort of filter this way unconsciously.
Nobody's trying to make a mistake. Uh
but people just filter information
differently and what's important to
somebody on the front line might be
different to the manager to the team
leader to the all the way up to you and
so by the time you get it it's like how
accurate is this information
>> and vice versa like he's like how what
are the odd the people don't know what I
want
>> exactly and so the other way just as
well right it's an interesting way to
think about it
>> yeah they're lean like lean in way more
than I realized into communications and
enablement training like we've and doing
the last year
huge amount of like strategy sessions
and teaching and like traveling the
world and doing these like little almost
like a little music festival. It's the
wrong analogy but like you know music
festival they give you like multiple
tracks that you could you know you go to
see different acts like we have that
we'll come to different offices and have
different tracks to learn about
different things. I think it's very
important that the people have agency.
You show up in an office and you're
like, "Okay, we're going to do a half a
day of training." You have to sit
through like four talks in a row, you
lose your mind. But if I give you a menu
and you're like, "Hey, there's like four
talks happening right now and there's 16
talks, right? For the next four hours,
you can just choose your own adventure.
Which talk would you want to go to?"
People all of a sudden like, "This is
amazing." Um,
>> get to go learn about. And our business
is super interesting geographically.
We're in all the different countries and
um almost all the countries we different
modes of transport, different
technologies, there's like it's actually
an incredible thing. So if you give
people agency so we trying to do that to
like overcome this problem of I just
realized I I we have an I think we're a
pretty well-run company. We have
everybody writing teams like write these
documents of what their strategy is,
what happened this month, like these six
pager kind of we took this from Amazon
years ago before we ever heard Dick
Clark. um the six pagers that you would
write about updates. Well, I read them
all. I get access to all of them, but no
one else does. A couple other people on
the team.
We're not that secretive, but just like
this not part of the the structure is
like they don't disseminate. Uh so I was
just realizing like no one else has
there's such incredible things happening
at this company, but nobody knows about
it or like not enough people know. But
we started I'm trying to work on that
problem more as kind of to overcome this
telephone problem. It's like I just
realized oh like no one else has the
access I do.
>> What's the cadence and frequency of
those six page updates
>> monthly? There's about 26 teams that do
an MBR monthly business review and a six
pager and then that's just like it
doesn't I think we cap it at six but
it's the six isn't that important. It's
mostly um honestly I actually think the
six pager is sort of maybe wrong. Uh,
I'm not sure, but it's more how much
time it takes to read,
>> right?
>> You know what's Twain say? Like, uh,
it's harder to write a six-pager than it
is to write a 12-pager.
>> Yeah.
>> For a lot of businesses. And so, you're
like, if you had more empathy for the
people who are working hard, you'd let
them write the 12-pager and spend more
time reading it. Uh,
>> but it turns out you
>> that six pages seems fine. Um, so we
have, I think, 25 or 26 teams that write
those monthly and then they do an annual
plan, uh, two-year rolling, but once a
year update. Okay.
>> Chesky does his twice a year update.
>> Okay.
>> I don't know if that's secret, but uh I
haven't moved to that yet.
>> You mentioned the word obsessed. I want
to talk about that for a beat before we
move on to tariffs. What does that mean
to you?
>> Oh, it's just like I can't stop thinking
about flexport.
>> It's just all the time. It's like
consuming.
>> It's a problem. It's a very addictive
industry. It turns out it's always on.
It's always different.
>> Every day is unique. You got a front row
seat, you backstage pass, you see what's
happening in the world in an insane
degree, and there's infinite problems to
solve. Ours and our customers and our
vendors, like I mean, it's just like a
crazy landscape of problems to solve.
So, yeah, it's a it's a pretty awesome
industry. And I think one of the things
that we've done well is show people that
actually this thing that looks boring,
you don't think about it, actually a
really interesting place to build a
career.
>> Let's talk about what's going on in the
world. Let's start with tariffs a little
bit. And I think it would just help
orient people for the conversation. What
are tariffs? When do they apply? Is this
a question or is this not? Tariffs, I
think it's an Arabic word. It goes back
a long time. Governments have always had
tariffs thousands of years. Control
their borders uh and make money. It used
to be the primary source of revenue for
most countries is tariff. Uh in the
United States, that was for sure true.
Uh the income tax wasn't introduced
until Abraham Lincoln in the Civil War.
And uh yeah, it's the percent of the
value of the goods that are imported
that you have to pay to the US Treasury.
Primary reason for it, I guess there's a
few you revenue is real. Um in fact,
Trump's chief economic adviser right
now, the chairman of the council of I
don't know if he's the chief adviser,
but the chairman of the council of
economic adviserss um is a guy named
Steven Moran. Um and he in his current
administration he said that in the Trump
won first term that the tariffs on China
paid for onethird of the tax cuts that
Trump did. It's pretty meaningful. I
mean it's an it's an interesting
alternative way to fund the government
via tariffs instead of income tax. Like
I'm not sure I hate that idea. I don't
know what would happen. It's uh so it's
a source of revenue is very very
important and valuable to the
government. It's a way to control
protectionism for companies. That's been
a major reason to use tariffs over the
years is to protect US businesses from
competition. In part just for employment
reasons, in part for national security
reasons like you want to have certain
industries be successful. Steel has
always been one of these and autos most
comp most major countries like believe
their auto industry is like important
not just for jobs but for armaments.
Like you make tanks. your Ford factory
during a war etc. So yeah, those are
legitimate reasons for terrorists.
>> Why do they matter in the context of
like the global politics?
>> Obviously the increase of the cost for
companies that are sourcing goods and
we've become so globalized our economy
is just like the supply chains are
unfathomably complex and interdependent
and they're full of independent actors
making their own decisions about how
they want to do things. And um there's
these component subcomponent ecosystems
of supply of moving goods all over the
world and doing assembly and production
in different countries and bringing
things together. So it introducing
massive changes on short notice to the
tariffs has caused borderline chaos.
Certainly a lot of disorder in global
supply chains which ultimately affects
all the stuff that we buy. Most it's not
true that America doesn't make anything
anymore but like a lot of the kind of
consumer goods that are all made over a
lot of them are made overseas obviously.
I mean you talk to a lot of customers
are people onshoring or are they just
sort of accepting or or what's
happening?
>> Well that's the thing you have to judge
policies not by their intention but by
their outcome like one of the mistakes
that a lot a lot of people make is like
well there's good intention so therefore
the policy is fine and that's just not
right and these tariffs have had the
opposite impact that Trump would like. I
think there's intention there's some dou
some validity to it all like some of the
things I said from national security and
employment other things but the um the
result has been thus far and it's pretty
early in the cycle we're only a couple
months since the liberation day or
whatever but the um I've met way more
I've met infinitely more I haven't met
anyone who said oh because of these
terrorists I'm going to start doing
production in the US I've read some
headlines on it and they've done some
white house announcements and things but
like those aren't my customer base and
my customer base met at least a half a
dozen companies that said stop
production in the US because of the cost
of the components coming in.
>> Oh, interesting.
>> Uh, and there's kind of like three
categories of these, two or three. Uh,
one is people, for example, we have a
bicycle, a company that makes bicycles
in the US, kids bikes. And for some
reason, they made an exemption for
importing bikes that are duty-free, but
not bike components.
So their cost went way up and their
competitors from overseas didn't. So
they are cheaper to manufacture
overseas. So they're moving their
factory that like has been a well-known
brand, reasonably well-known brand known
for being made in America and they're
like doesn't work anymore. So that's one
example. Um two is if you're ex doing it
for export, you're exporting goods,
you're paying your costs have gone up on
the import of the goods of the
components doing assembly in the US and
then exporting. you're better off
setting up that factory now somewhere
else where you don't have the cost on
the imported components. Third would be
machinery costs. So like fact a friend
of mine was setting up a a line for a
fab like a semiconductor fab um and just
like the machines are made in Germany
for that particular line and the cost
was going to go up 30%. He's like, "All
right, I'll just build this line
somewhere else in another country."
>> And there's all sorts of like hedges and
ways around this. Like one would I think
a bonded warehouse is you don't actually
technically pay the tariff until you
take it out of So it's landed in the
United States, but you don't pay the
tariff until it comes out of the bonded
warehouse.
>> Yeah, it's temporary though. You're
still going to pay the tariff. So it
doesn't really work for like changing
the nature. But bonded warehouse will
let you make a bet that tariffs are
going to come down. So when tariffs were
at 145 on China, we helped a lot of
companies move into bonded warehouses
cuz we all predicted that it would come
down from there. So you're better off
waiting and only enter the goods, only
exit them out of the building, but enter
them into the US commerce after they've
after the tariffs have come down. So
there's some there's some hacks around
the edges. There's a lot that you need
to do. If before you didn't care about
valuation, the value of the goods, if it
was time zero, who cares?
>> Yeah. But now all of a sudden if it's
times 30% or whatever number you care a
lot more of how is it valued.
>> Um and there are all kinds of legal ways
and you need to get really great advice
on legal advice or ad trade advisory on
how to do this. But there are ways
tracking the um you want to be able to
really track every single component of a
product. Where is it made? Uh and what
is its what is its cost. So, like if you
have a cow, there's steel and aluminum
duties right now that are really high.
Forget the exact number, but they're
quite high. I think 50% or more um on on
Chinese made steel and aluminum. Maybe
on all I should know all these details.
It's very complex. Um but if you have a
couch that has steel and aluminum, you
don't want to pay that 50%. You don't
want to pay that high duty on the entire
couch. You want to only pay it on the
portion that's steel and aluminum. So
you really have to build this great we
call it a product library uh which
flexboard offers this technology
product. So you you want to be able to
track all these things at the
subcomponent level. Where's every item
made? And then there's all these new
regulations that have been coming out
for many many years. There's one called
the Weaguer Force Labor Protection Act
requires you to track the cotton
anything cotton where was it made
uh specifically like what down and then
the EU has a new one's very similar but
any forestry any wood product you be
able to show where the wood was grown
anywhere in the world track that
>> this is insanely complex
>> yeah carbon they want to know the carbon
border adjustment factor I think it's
called that they want to know all the
input that all the carbon inputs of
every single subcomponent of every
product in the world,
how much carbon went into making it so
they can measure the carbon footprint.
Um, and then you coming soon, um, you're
going to have to provide a like a QR
code on every item that you can scan and
they'll tell you the carbon footprint.
So, the world just keeps getting more
and more complex, which plays in the
hands of customs company, companies like
Flexport because like cool, you need
technology to track all this stuff. Um,
kind of classic regulatory recapture
type stuff. We're not lobbying for any
of these things, but uh
>> and you're the most techforward of all
the companies
>> kind of we're the only one founded only
one in the top hundred in the world
founded after the web browser was
invented. A lot of good companies, but
they're not tech companies
fundamentally. So, we have to uh we have
the the world is our oyster. we should
win at all.
>> Are there any sort of creative
strategies you've seen any of your
customers use that you're like, "Oh,
that's novel or interesting."
>> You have to be careful. There's um
there's some illegal stuff that I see
and not so much at our customers. we
talk out of this, but um one of the
temptations that a lot of people are
falling into right now is letting your
factory import the goods for you and
then buying it from them in the US
and then not turning a blind eye if the
factory cheats
on the value of the goods or their
classification. That's kind of rampant
in the industry right now. That's just a
matter of time before I would imagine
who regulates that
>> Customs and Border Protection um and DOJ
their uh their problem is what the
factories will do is set up a shell
company, not in the US. You don't have
to have a US entity to import goods into
the US.
>> Oh, interesting.
>> You can just work Canada or most of
Western Europe. So, you can just they
set up the shell company in whatever
country. It could be China. It could be
anywhere. um that company registers not
as an LLC or any kind of legal entity,
but they just register with CBP with
customs. They import the goods into the
US from abroad.
If they cheat, they just disappear. And
C customs doesn't have agents in China
to go chase it down. So then they just
do it again under a different shell
company. And that's a huge amount of
what gets sold on Amazon. It's not not
I'm not saying it's fraudulent, but is
these foreign registered companies. It's
definitely like a gray area. Do you
think they'll bring that back?
>> I think they're going to crack down
that. I think they're going to shut down
that. Um,
>> and make it so you have to be a US
entity to import.
>> That's a created LLC. It can be foreign
owned LLC, but you'll have to have like
an LLC that can be held accountable.
>> U, but it's very unclear exactly how it
will be or should be structured. Like,
does it need to have employees who could
face jail time? Like, what's the, you
know, what does it need to have a
certain amount of cash in the bank that
can be taken if there's fraud? There's a
lot of ways, but I have no idea what's
going to pass. There's a couple I
understand there's a few bills like
looming but I haven't read the text of
them yet um in Washington that would
shut down the ability for foreign
companies to import or put in new
requirements for it. So that's like one
creative thing. Now what'll happen is
you get offered as an importer. You've
been buying these goods from your
factory and then all of a sudden they
offer them to you for way cheaper than
the duty alone. You're like hey it's not
my problem. I just bought it in the US.
Guarantee you like you are liable for
that. Like as a warning, look at the
camera. CBP DOJ has announced it's their
number two priority in white collar
crime division of the Department of
Justice is um customs fraud. Healthcare
fraud number one and then customs fraud
number two.
>> Are there any other creative strategies
we can sort of put out there in the
world today that you've seen not your
customers use?
>> Yeah. Well, the good strategies, let's
not talk about the illegal ones anymore.
I mean, but be careful. Make sure you're
getting good advice. Um is have that
database, know all the subcomponents.
There's a few things like valuation.
You can there's a thing called first
sale. I won't bore you all with the
technicalities of it, but there's it's
called first sale, which basically says
that you pay um the value of the goods
based on the first time it was sold, not
the price that you paid at import. So,
there's legal ways to do that. If you
bought it, like there was a middleman or
an agent that bought it in China, marked
it up to you, you can actually import
the goods at the price they paid, not
the price you paid. You can deduct the
portion if you file it all correctly.
And don't quote me on this because you
want to get good legal advice, including
from Flexport's team, but you uh you can
deduct the portion that's USmade, but
you have to you don't just get to
automatically do that. You have to like
file the right paperwork and stuff. And
then importantly, if you import
something, you pay duties and then you
later export a product with the same
classification, you're owed a refund on
pass.
>> Okay. You get your import back the
imported duties you pay.
>> Yeah. And so every year in the United
States, 7 billion goes unclaimed. And
that was pre these new tariffs. So it's
presumably much higher. Yeah. So we we
help companies with that. We've been
getting people like big checks back that
haven't and you can go back five years
in time. So that's like a really
important one if you haven't done it's
called duty drawback if you haven't done
that. And other countries offer this
too. Most countries. So yeah, there's a
lot of strategies. In fact, the one
thing that people should really know is
your data on all your past transactions
with the US government are with US
customs are your is your data. You have
the right to it under the Freedom of
Information Act. So, you can pull your
last 5 years of transactions from CBP.
Now, they won't they give it to you uh
in a very unusable format. I think like
giant CSV dump basically, maybe even on
CVS, I forget, but they give you like
this not not useful. It is still your
data, so it's useful, but you have to
know how to clean up. So, we've built
this interface that like visualizes all
of this for you and shows you every
transaction you've done in and out of
the country and then our experts kind of
walk you through and be like, "Okay,
here's our checklist. This is ways that
we think we could maybe get you a
refund." Now, Trump has lost the lawsuit
on these new duty on these new tariffs.
And
they they is going to appeal. So, the
oral arguments for that start on July
30th, next month.
>> Is that at the Supreme Court level? No,
it's the level below the Supreme Court.
So presumably if he if he loses again,
it'll get appealed again to the Supreme
Court. So that's I don't know enough how
this works, but towards the end of the
year is my imagination. Um is my guess
that it'll go to the Supreme Court.
>> Either way, it'll probably end up there.
>> Probably it ends at the Supreme Court.
Yeah. Um that will be an really an
interesting case. If they lose again,
everybody gets a refund on all their
duties, but it won't they won't just
refund it. You're then going to have to
file paperwork,
>> of course. Yeah. They're not going to
like here's a magic check in the mail.
>> Yeah. So, it's going to be And then it's
already takes like about a year when you
get one of these refunds from the
government. Takes about a year to get
your check.
>> Yeah.
>> When every single company in the country
Yeah.
>> applies for a refund, you probably won't
see the check for like three years.
There's going to be so much fraud. Oh,
man. It's going to be kind of a total
mess if they lose that lawsuit.
>> Where's traffic now? Is it back to
normal? Is it down? Is it
>> volumes from China collapsed 60% down
when on April 9th the day the duties hit
stayed down for 5 weeks what and then as
soon as he relaxed as soon as they the
Trump administration relaxed the duties
on China to 30% instead of 145 it surged
to 80% above pre-tariff levels that
lasted for two weeks and then it came
down
it's still above pre-tariff levels I
haven't studied enough the market data
and now I'm looking at flex export data
and we have got 30% growth over last
year. So then I start to figure we're
actually up again from the trough like
it came down and now we're back up but I
think that's a flexible thing. I think
the market's
shrinking again from the peak that we
hit postcoid but uh our own volumes were
like 30% year-over-year growth. So
>> what are the markers you look for that
are like public information or that you
have as proprietary information that are
sort of indicators like the economy is
really good. Oh, we're gonna hit some
trouble. You know, one of the things
that Buffett has always said is he looks
at intermodal rail volume as a leading
indicator for the economy. I'm curious
like given your aperture into
everything.
>> I've never been like a macro person. I'm
not an investor like that. So, it
doesn't matter to me that much. I guess
it's I mean Buffett is right like the
logistics, but it's the international
stuff is so um
seasonality. There's a lot of weirdness
in lately in this tariff data that is
just like I don't know if that means you
want to know what the consumers are
doing ultimately. What are they buying
and selling and a lot there's just a
huge amount of noise like they didn't
ship that much less or more because of
consumer demand. That was like you know
cost and inventory forecasting and so I
don't it's probably if I had my access
to any data it would be the consumer you
know sales data from all the customers
and inventory levels.
I just don't know. I the sales data
fine. I like public companies report on
their sales inventory data. I I've never
understood like the US government
publishes these inventory um metrics
every month. I I where do they get that?
I have no idea.
>> Um I haven't gotten any good economists
to answer that. Look how they run a
survey. I'm like
>> interesting valid data. Is that
accurate? I know how hard it is to get
accurate data out of my own company. So
the idea of like government economists
getting accurate data about all of the
companies, I'm like always very
skeptical on these things.
>> It's 100% correct. I was so skeptical on
like big government data sets.
>> One of the things that you said that I
came across that really stood out for me
was when you're designing an operation,
you're choosing your bottleneck. If the
bottleneck appears somewhere, you didn't
choose it. You aren't running an
operation, it's running you. Double
click on that for a moment.
>> Bottleneck is going to be, you know, the
point, the choke point, the point at
which the um the limiting factor. And I
think you're in a in a company, your
bottleneck should always be customer
demand should never be like bottleneck.
Oh, I can't. Right now, we're
bottlenecked in our customs team. Our
trade advisory team, the people that are
helping solve these problems that I was
describing around how much dues you owe
and how to minimize it, how to be
compliant. That team is super
bottlenecked. We didn't plan for a world
that would require this much money, this
much expert headcount. And it's hard to
find these types of people that really
know the space. So, we're bottlenecked
in a place that we didn't plan. The
bottleneck should be I don't have enough
customers wanting my thing. Uh you'd
like that to be in a B2B environment.
That should be the bottleneck. But if it
shows up somewhere else, yeah, I'm not
in control right now. It feels very
uncomfortable. I'm like, do I want I
don't want to just hire more people,
especially if it's not if it's a
temporary surge. So what uh it feels out
of control as it um and we need to get
get our handle on that. And I I hate
that. I want my problem always to be
like, "Oh, I need to be more creative in
my marketing and sales and like work on
the pitch and the user experience and
the things there." And so, yeah, if
you're bottlenecked in how much space,
we've had a number of it. This is um
been we've had bottlenecks move all over
the place during CO and and since um how
much space there is on ships, there's
been a bottleneck for us even as
recently as last couple weeks with this
huge surge of new bookings following the
relaxation of the terrace. Um
that's not right. like there should not
be a bottleneck for I can't get cargo
loaded on a ship and therefore I can't
help the customer or the customer's
getting this huge delay and getting
loaded and getting their cargo
delivered. It's a it is a fact of the
industry right now. But that um
bottleneck shouldn't be in a warehouse
environment.
You know, you've got picture this flow
of goods at the loading dock.
You can choose where to put the
bottleneck on in in the flow of those
goods. loading dock, unload, put away,
pick, pack, outbound, you know, and and
ship again. Um, and the the way that
Amazon does this, as I understand it, is
they they try to make the bottleneck the
most capital intensive piece and then
they overstack it so that there's plenty
of capacity on that whatever the machine
is probably that is capital intensive,
that requires a lot of capital, have
like lots and lots of that machine. So
that that way they're never it just
keeps flowing the goods the you don't
hit the bottleneck. You don't actually
hit and if you do it's cuz oh okay
didn't nothing I could do there is like
more capital needed rather than if it's
labor you're like cool just throw more
labor at it that should never be the
bottleneck. It's only where oh I need a
lot more capital here even than I
planned and then they overinvest in
capex so they don't hit the bottleneck
>> because you want the most asset intense
part sweating just non-stop.
>> Yeah. The asset intense part should be
always should be operating. No, but you
should have excess capacity there. That
way you don't get stuck with this
machine holding you back like you have
extra machine but it's it's a um that's
a strategy for people with a lot of
capex. That's Amazon's model with plenty
of capbacks. Uh and I'm not sure that
they do it right. Like one of the things
that they do that pisses off their
merchants is they have this endless line
of trucks at the warehouse. They can't
unload. They've pushed the bottleneck
often to the unload piece. the loading
docks and truckers and can't get
appointments and stuff. So, I think
that'd be wrong in that framework that
like they should
allow the goods to flow through. It's a
it's fascinating world of like you know
web deming is the um kind of business
philosopher of quality. He's written a
lot on um statistical process control
and creating even flow
through a system that you don't want to
have these spikes in uh of flow because
it makes planning really hard and labor
and assets or people become idle.
>> You don't want any variance.
>> Yeah. Eliminating variance is like lean
six sigma type stuff. I'm I'm It's one
of these things that doesn't come
naturally to me. I'm like trying to
study it and take an interest in it but
it's not my uh natural forte to go deep
on this area. I do find it quite um
intellectually stimulating but it hasn't
it's not like my training and
background.
>> Is that like the whole Toyota production
system thing?
>> It is. Yeah.
>> Do you guys use that
>> a little bit? Yeah. I mean the Toyota
production system I think there's like
two companies that have taken it really
really seriously and advanced it in the
United States. One is one is Amazon and
one is Danaher manufacturing company.
The idea is a couple things. One is one
things that we do that is very Toyota
production system like is in the Toyota
production system and I've never been to
Toyota. I got a proper tour of this. I'm
a bit of a chauffeur knowledge like
repeating what I've heard and learned a
little bit from a distance but is um the
the worker the the line worker follows
the part down the line and does many of
the steps operate several of or many of
the machines instead of like in a US
production Toyota auto production each
guy does one job and kind of more
robotic like I was describing earlier
and you know our model is very similar
to the Toyota one in that sense like the
same worker follows this shipment down
the line as it were doing all the tasks
until it's complete. Um that that I
think Toyota kind of pioneered that that
piece of it. Better for the worker for
sure. You like have more agency. You're
more involved. You know more of the
details. You're like your career is more
interesting. You're learning all the
steps. Um but they really the other
thing that Toyota really does is empower
the workers to like elevate problems.
It's right. They famously have the rope
they can pull to shut down the whole
line uh if things aren't right and take
quality super seriously. Quality costs
less. I think that comes from we deming.
So it's all it's all a very interesting
area uh that we tried to apply and this
is where I needed help at some point.
He's not like a natural on these things.
>> You mentioned chauffeur knowledge which
is uh such a tell that you're a Charlie
Mer uh devote. I would love to hear some
of the lessons you took away from uh
reading him or interacting with him.
>> I got to become friendly with Mer
towards the with Charlie towards the end
of his life. I went to his 99th birthday
party late last year actually um before
he passed.
I got lucky. I got really in fact his um
the person I'm closer with is Peter
Kaufman who's the author of Poor
Charlie's Almanac and that's like one of
my favorite books. And when I lived in
China, I got a copy of that book and
really it's like a coffee table but
Stripe just re-released a copy of it.
It's now available in print again. It
used to be kind of out of print and I
had that book and I loved it and it
really inspired me. Mer has this really
wonderful essay which I actually
discovered on the Y cominator website um
called the art of worldly wisdom or
something to that effect. If you if you
Google munger worldly wisdom you'll find
it um and it's a US it's a speech of
that he gave at USC. It's like a
graduation speech.
>> We'll link to it in the show.
>> Yeah, you should link to it. It's
wonderful. And it's about this idea that
there's like 300
domains in the world of knowledge. 300.
It's kind of an arbitrary. I don't I
don't remember if he says 300 or not,
but there's some number of limited
quantity of domains and that in each of
these there are two or three big ideas
that carry all the 80% of the freight as
he said it. Uh and so if you were to go
and learn those two or three big ideas
from each of the disciplines up your
alley, I'm sure you've written about
this before. you have all these mental
models and you have lots of stuff to
hang things on. Uh and then also a lot
of the innovation in the world comes
from taking an idea from one domain and
applying it elsewhere or a mental model
from one applying it elsewhere. So I
learned about this when I was like 25 or
so living in China and that really set
me off on a lifetime journey of like
trying to re become like learn as many
of these domains as I could try to be
worldly wise. Um
and so I I I love that. It really
inspired me. And then one day I was at a
party at a house in Silicon Valley. Not
like a fun party but like you know
gathering a cocktail event or something.
And um I didn't know anybody and I this
older guys older gentleman was there and
I struck up he struck up a conversation.
He saw me not talking to anyone or
something. We started talking to each
other and he at some point asked me what
my favorite book was. I told him it's
poor Charlie's Almanac. And because he's
like why do you like that book? And I
told him all this and he's like well I
know that book really well actually. I'm
the author of that book, Peter Kaufman.
And so he's like one of Munger's really
good friends,
uh, for many, many years. And he's the
one that put together this almanac.
So he just thought that was so funny
that he started bringing me to Charlie's
house and like tells Charlie the story.
One of my favorite things that Charlie
told me at one of these dinners at his
house was uh when I told him about
Flexport, he was like, "Oh, you had a
great business because the key to
success is dumb competition."
which that's kind of insulting. We have
some really smart competitors, but I I
always say that to people who are like
building AI companies. It's just like
what a nightmare. Your your competitors
are literally AI geniuses. Like you
should find a way to apply AI in some
other domain. So you're not competing
with the smartest people on planet Earth
because like the odd it's like trying to
be a boxer. like you're going to you
might beat all the people in your local
gym, but at some point you're going to
run into uh somebody bigger, stronger,
faster,
>> Jon Jones or somebody's going to kick
your ass.
>> Yeah.
>> I don't think we're the smartest people
in the world, but within our little old
school industry, we can we can do some
damage.
>> Funny story about Peter before uh he's a
mutual friend, yours and mine.
>> And the way that I met him, I was at a
Bergkshire Hathway meeting
>> and I had went up to the uh the hotel,
you know, naively. this my first meeting
ever, you know, I just show up and I'm
like, "Can I get a hotel room?" And the
person behind the counter starts
laughing and I was like, "Oh, no
problem. I'll just sleep in my car, you
know, whatever."
>> And Peter walks up to me and he's like,
"I hear you. You need a hotel room." And
he ends up giving me he had a block of
rooms and he ends up giving me one of
his rooms.
>> That's amazing.
>> Which is the perfect Peter move.
>> It is totally. And it's the most perfect
embodiment of one of his phrases, which
is go positive and go first.
>> Yeah. and he we ended up striking up a
conversation. Uh we had a mutual friend
who joined us in that which was Peter
Bevlin and we just ended up chatting for
a long time and he's like if you're ever
out in California, you know, come see me
and I was like oh it just so happened to
be there next week. I had no plans to be
there at all. Right. But
>> you go on air.
>> Oh yeah, totally. And that struck up my
friendship with him which has been he's
been an incredible influence.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Okay, that makes sense.
That's hilarious cuz he loves inventory.
>> Yeah. And he had he also had an
inventory of extra rooms just in case
somebody needed one.
>> Actually, walk me through that. Why why
does he love inventory?
>> Well, because everyone else hates it. I
There's a contrarian element to it.
Everybody went to business school and
learned that extra inventory is uh evil
and carries working capital costs, etc.
But he's in his business, which is
airline airport airplane parts, avi
aviation parts, uh having excess
inventory means you can provide the part
on demand. Any part you have it, no one
else does. So people are willing to pay
a real premium if you're especially in
aviation if your line is down or your
plane's not flying. We have a whole
branch of logistics called air aircraft
on ground logistic AOG aircraft on
ground. People will pay any price. I
once um flew an this is not what
Flexport does, but I know this guy's a
billionaire and his plane, his G650
Gulfream uh private jet broke down in
Antarctica or uh in southern Chile, like
right next to Antarctica. Somebody
crashed it uh like a tractor into the
wing and he called me. He's like, "Can
you get me a I need this? I have the
wing. I need to fly it to Chile. I will
pay any price." like connect you with
this guy and he told us like 10 times
like if there's a way to pay more to get
this there faster we will do it. And so
being the guy with all the parts uh for
that type of customer you think about it
you have this like in some cases you
know 10 million to $200 million plane or
more
>> sitting grounded from a like $1,000 part
or could be 10,000 you could charge 100k
for that part and they're going to be
like no problem.
>> Yeah. And inventory I mean inventory
should be not that expensive to keep
around but it depends if it's perishable
like the co was a great example like
people the hospitals didn't have enough
inventories all run just in time which
is just ridiculous way to run a
healthcare network just in time because
in a crisis so you better have some
inventory but the problem I think
becomes that these the PPE the mass and
stuff has a shelf life and expiration
load so you can't just build a warehouse
>> totally
>> full of this stuff and let it sit there
you only need to
>> pull it out 20 years
>> yeah it won't work so it's a hard
problem similar with like military like
how much artillery do you want to just
produce and just have sitting around
just in case there's a war but like you
want some when there's a war you you
don't want to start your production then
>> are there any other Peter Kaufman
lessons that stand out
>> so many I don't know if you know
hopefully he publishes more books at
some point he's written a lot of stuff
that he keeps offline I really like his
um competitive exclusion principle what
is that it's basically it comes from
biology and it's this idea that um in a
niche in an ecological niche ecosystem
there's only a two two species can't
occupy the same niche one of them must
out compete the other one if they're
like for life they're both occupying the
exact same niche one will win the other
will get pushed aside go extinct or have
to adapt and so in business
the way to apply that is like you should
be able to do all the things that your
competitor can do and you can't leave
any room for them to exist because they
can do something you can't do the
opposite of this dogma that you should
only do one thing and do it really
really well. It's like actually you
should spread out and make sure there's
no room for the other guy to stick
around and maintain a relationship with
your customer just because you're not
able to do that thing. And we still have
some of these. I mean we it's very hard
to do everything. Well, he calls it's a
there's a Wikipedia article about it the
competitive exclusion principle. I think
that's pretty interesting. I learned
from actually just generally Peter's
whole thing is um is the worldly wisdom
idea. taking
>> ideas from biology of physics and what's
his other one is the um formula for
kinetic energy
is 1/2 of mass times velocity squared we
use velocity as like our main word at
flexport velocity
>> go deeper on that because velocity
matters more because it's it's power law
right
>> from the kinetic energy formula it's a
square function and mass is only linear
and so this is why um in football
American football is hitting so are
knocking. Often it seems like this
little guy can just like create more way
more energy. Well, they are. They're
velocity. They're running really fast.
Yeah.
>> It's more important than how big you
are. It's how fast you're moving.
>> And now velocity is different from
physics than speed. Velocity has a
vector. So, you got to go in the right
direction in business. But it also it's
sort of an explanation for why startups
out compete. Big companies have way more
mass, but they start to become slow and
bureaucratic and three guys in the
garage can often out compete. It it's
interesting to sort of visualize as like
the incumbent being fat and you being,
you know, skinny and quick and agile and
you kind of want to run upstairs and it
sucks for you but it really sucks for
them.
>> Yeah.
>> That's how I sort of think about that
which is like how do you how can you
cause pain in a way that like it's going
to suck for you but it sucks more for
them.
>> What are some things that you got from
Peter? Well, the go positive, go first
thing is just such an unlock in life.
And the demonstration like I'd never
talked to him or or sort of like had any
conversations with them at that point.
And it just stuck with me. It st
>> This example is from the elevator.
>> You're stuck in an elevator with
someone. Most people will say nothing,
>> which is like kind of polite to not say
anything, but if you say hello, they'll
actually turns out most people will say
hello back and be nice to you.
>> And then we don't do it because like the
2% of people will sort of scallow at us.
Yeah.
>> I don't really want to talk to people at
elevators either, but I get that. Yeah.
I mean, it's an interesting uh point.
>> Well, now everybody's on their phone, so
it's it's it's a different world. Ryan,
we always end these interviews with the
exact same question, which is, what is
success for you?
>> I'd like to be worldly wise. I try to
keep learning. I'm lucky to have that
learn that value early on in my life
that learning is the most important
thing. I mean, now I've got kids, so
it's love, but learning is right there
as a close second for what my number one
value is. That's why I like Flexport so
much. just like a really incredible
vehicle to learn and the best way to
learn is to solve a problem, you know,
be really engaged and do things and
solve problems for people. In the
business context for Flexport, we want
to be the number one logistics company
in the world by far. And we think
there's real scale economies in this
industry that you can unlock, but we're
pretty far from that. We're only about
0.1% of global trade uh in the
containeriz in the world in the domain
in which we play. So I we got 20 30
years of just like building going
global. We we got flexboard employees in
18 countries. I want to be in all the
world's countries be like a true network
business where ship anything anywhere
make it super easy with tech. Uh
actually I think we can lower the cost
of shipping anything by 5 to 10%.
And I think it could have just like a
massive impact on the world economy.
So all those all those things are like
part of the success path but we're
trying to enjoy the journey like learn
every day help our customers on that
along that path.
>> I'm looking forward to rooting for you
from the sidelines.
>> Thanks.
>> You've just spent your most valuable
asset with me, your time. My commitment
to you is that you get the best possible
return on that investment moving
forward. Subscribing and hitting that
thumbs up button ensures my team and I
can continue to bring you amazing
conversations like the ones on your
screen right now. Until next time.